# Journal

**Instructions:** In your journal.md for this week, think about how the various authors in the readings make the case for how digital history arguments are advanced. Think about the cycle of jumping from close to distant ‘reads’ or ‘views’ of your material, and the ways the stories emerge - or not. What is missing from historical argumentation in digital history? What is different about this process from what you have come to experience as historians in other classes? How do the particular affordances of digital work change what you might know - and how you might argue it? How much (or what) a priori knowledge is a requirement for digital history arguments to make sense to a reader/viewer/user?

## In your journal.md for this week, think about how the various authors in the readings make the case for how digital history arguments are advanced. Think about the cycle of jumping from close to distant ‘reads’ or ‘views’ of your material, and the ways the stories emerge - or not. What is missing from historical argumentation in digital history?

I will not completely lie and say some of the readings concepts, especially the larger paper, went a little over my head. From my understanding, the process of actively being a digital historian involves a lot more moral questions than I had once assumed. There are many questions to consider when pursuing a project. A topic I have seen repeated is the decision of what is deemed important or not when collecting data and research for a project. Are you ignoring a part of history if you choose one source over the either, especially if their information clashes? There is also the question of who to credit when collecting data. If you use the online version of the source, do you credit that or maybe the original source? 

In regards to what is missing from historical argumentation in digital history, I haven't seen too much about the debate of when technology overpowers the information (or history) that the "digital aspect" is trying to enhance. I think, like with all things in love, moderation is key. there is a balance in when technology is used to discover more, verses being use in a way that destroys the history it is trying to explore. I think this is a balance that is not completely mastered yet. In the last (longest text), it explored how video games incorporate digital humainties into the creation of videos games. If not done correctly, that might be an example of when technology hinders (or even skews) history instead of augments it.

## What is different about this process from what you have come to experience as historians in other classes?

Although most things in life have some sort of digital or technological aspect to their creation, I feel in a historical context there are more significant implications. The field of history is fairly new to relying so heavily on certain digital tools and it is still obvisouly adapting. Said adaptation includes navigating any moral questions (including the ones I mentioned above).

## How do the particular affordances of digital work change what you might know - and how you might argue it? 

As shown by the various readings this week, certain tools allow historians (and people in general) to make connections of certain historical data that would have never been possible before. The entire story regarding Sarah Durrant is a perfect example of this. Using various data vizualization, text and word analysis programs and other online tools, a completely lost and otherwise unknown narrative was discovered. It changes how people look at history in general. With certain tools, and bright minds backing them, more discoveries are popping up that change what people had originally thought. We have the ability to compare information in ways that we never knew before. Technology, the new emerging field of digital humanities and evolving historians are now more than ever able to uncover the secrets of history that they were never able to before. It offers a new perspective to old stories, and it is honestly an opportuity that should not be passed by.

## How much (or what) a priori knowledge is a requirement for digital history arguments to make sense to a reader/viewer/user?

Ive mentioned this before, but more than knowledge people must have respect for history and the overall mision that the digital humanity project is pursuing. If you respect the information you are learning more about, you will be more understanding regarding anything that has to do with digital history. Knowledge-wise, I think people must understand a small amount of how digital tools are used to enhance history, and are not just there for no reason or overpower the original information. They must undertand that it is a tool used to support, not completely alter.  
